Testground Weekly (45 mins)
===

###### tags: `IPFS` `Testing`

:::info
- **Host:** @nonsense
- **Notetaker:** @momack2
- **Location:** https://protocol.zoom.us/j/181391682
- **Date:** Jan 21, 2020 6:00 PM (UTC)
- **Participants:**
    - @raulk
    - ~~@daviddias~~
    - @nonsense
    - ~~@hacdias~~
    - @jimpick
    - @stebalien
    - @aschmahmann
    - @dirkmc
    - @yusefnapora
    - Yiannis Psaras
    - Jacob Heun
    - Molly Mackinlay
    - Peter Rabbitson
    - Aarsh Shah
- **Agenda**
  ~~1. Sprint Update `00min`~~
  2. Identify blockers / Answer Questions `30min`
  3. This week's planning `15min`
- **Reference:** 
  - [Last week meeting minute 2020-01-14](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/_meeting-notes/2020-01-14.md)
  - [HOW_WE_WORK.md#weekly-sync](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/docs/HOW_WE_WORK.md#weekly-sync)
  - [KanBan Board](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/test-ground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board)
  - [Testing Infra Design](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/docs/SPEC.md)
  - [Testing Inventory](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/docs/test-inventory.md)
  - [Testing Improvement Tracker](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xyqyGUF-oe3x9ln88YonVeOMWWdknik74lVgL_3dBY8/edit#gid=0)

:::

## :mega: Update (Done, Shipped, Made Progress)
> To be reviewed Async

- ==@raulk==
  - Got done
    - [Testground milestone v0.1 planning](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/testground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board?milestones=Testground%20v0.1%232020-01-31&repos=197244214)
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@daviddias==
  - Got done
    - vacation
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - work
  - Blocked
    - vacation
- ==@stebalien==
  - Got done
    - Review session with Adin on DHT work.
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - Content routing plan isn't quite done.
        - WIP: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1obd3QHL5QLAUHqi8oxtOl0EYs9bAuPVwz5SWQ53rSvI/edit?ts=5e26f233#
  - Blocked
    - nothing
- ==@nonsense==
  - In progress
    - ...
  - Got done
      - Got static IP assignment in sidecar <-> k8s runner
      - Improved docs on k8s setup
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
      - Fix control plane routes blocking in sidecar <-> k8s runner
          - I thought this works, but today it turned out that smth is wrong
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@hacdias==
  - Got done
    - ...
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ... 
- ==@dirkmc==
  - In progress
    - Bitswap test suite
  - Got done
    - Merged PR to collect and output logs to a single file
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@jimpick==
  - In progress
    - Collecting ideas for Testground+Filecoin
    - Test k8s + networking/sidecar progress
  - Got done
    - ...
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - basic-tcp test: https://github.com/ipfs/testground/pull/287 ... I was using some PRs that have been merged, so I can possibly finish it off now
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@aschmahmann==
  - Got done
    - [Draft PR](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-kad-dht/pull/436) for TCP Kad mostly complete
    - Did a PR review with @stebalien
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ... 
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@yusefnapora==
  - Didn't get done
    - Finish secure-channel testplan

## :question: Questions (Blockers, Technical Design needs)
> We only have 30 mins for this section, use your time wisely

- (@handle) QUESTION
- (@aschmahmann) should the `GetValues` function continue to exist? It returns a set of `RecvdVal`s, not clear if this struct should even be public.
    - Search sourcecode and see if this is used - think it was used at one point but many not anymore
- (@aschmahmann) calling `PutValue` with an empty table currently return an error. Is this correct behavior, or is succeeding in a local put sufficient?
    - should fail if routing table empty
    - think in a patch somewhere
    - in go-ipfs --offline for putting to local routing table and allowing to fail

## Presentations
[Zenhub](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/testground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board?milestones=Testground%20v0.1%232020-01-31&repos=197244214)
    - is there an easier test plan to use?
    - PR for the basic TCP test, had a few old changes in personal branch
    - 2 tests, first one doesn't do anything, second one uses sidecar to do traffic shaping
    - you can look at the timings to validate that metric matches latency you sent (8s if correctly set vs 1ms)
    - Know correct network want to listen on - we can modify cases to not listen on local networks
    - haven't tested with 1k nodes, tried with 600 today
    - not setting up CPU limits, therefore you need 20-30 instances - need to put this in the pod without spinning up a ton of VMs
    - done 10k without networking part
    - 600 was limit of cluster, don't know if was successful because some DHT test plans didn't get responses
    - also want to test redis - sidecar also uses this
    - guess that sidecar usage based on how saving keys in redis (without any config)
    
Test suite (Dirk's thing for Bitswap testing)
    - running a test plan over and over with many different parameters
    - ensambles (running a single plan with multiple versions within it)
    
Draft [Content Routing Plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1obd3QHL5QLAUHqi8oxtOl0EYs9bAuPVwz5SWQ53rSvI/edit?ts=5e26f233#)
    - is it missing anything
    - plan to break down into sub chunks
    - aim to pull DRIs directly into this
    - then put into zenhub and make it a gaant chart
    - still ramping this team up - hence merging these meetings right now
...

## :dart: Next

### Top 3 things to get done this week

...

### Assignments

- ==@raulk==
  - Finish v0.1 planning.
  - Write down conclusions from call with @nonsense on generating, storing, collecting stats/dumps.
  - Testground ensembles proof of concept.
  - Finish the DHT Content Routing plan.
- ==@daviddias==
  - Vacation
- ==@nonsense==
  - Push forward https://github.com/weaveworks/weave/pull/3754 so that we don't have to fork Weave
  - Run a testplan with 500 and 1000 instances and review if we have to fix anything on the cluster_k8s.go runner
  - Fix control plane routes blocking in sidecar <-> k8s runner
  - Take on https://github.com/ipfs/testground/issues/377
- ==@hacdias==
  - Exams
- ==@jimpick==
  - test k8s + sidecar with basic-tcp
      - Update PR (@stebalien) and get it merged/reviewed so we can use it as a "does this cluster work" test.
- ==@stebalien==
  - Finalize the content routing plan, break it down, and write it up as a set of issues.
  - Pair with Adin on the DHT fixes.
- ==@aschmahmann==
  - Clean up DHT code and a couple outstanding bugs
  - Start getting into Testground tests to evaluate new behavior on 1k network size
      - Requires some investigation into the proper parameters to use for network simulation (e.g. k,d,a Kademlia values to simulate a 10-100k node network using a 1k network)
      - Write a plan that chokes the old network (i.e. somewhat simulates real-world behavior)
- ==@yusefnapora==
  - Finish secure-channel plan.
- ==@jacobheun==
  - Work with @stebalien to break down content routing tasks.
  - Implement a project management system for the content routing team.
:::info
When the meeting is over, push notes to https://github.com/ipfs/testground/tree/master/_meeting-notes and verify that ZenHub is up to date https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/test-ground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board
:::
