Testground Weekly (45 mins)
===

###### tags: `IPFS` `Testing`

:::info
- **Host:** Fabio Martins
- **Notetaker:** @jacobheun
- **Location:** https://protocol.zoom.us/j/181391682
- **Date:** Feb 11, 2020 6:00 PM (UTC)
- **Participants:**
    - @raulk
    - @nonsense
    - @hacdias
    - @stebalien
    - @aschmahmann
    - @dirkmc
    - @yusefnapora
    - @jacobheun
    - @cory
    - @jimpick
    - ~~@daviddias~~ (UTC+7, makes it terrible for attend, will join in the nex)
    - ~~Yiannis Psaras~~
    - ~~Aarsh Shah~~
- **Agenda**
  ~~1. Sprint Update `00min`~~
  2. Identify blockers / Answer Questions `30min`
  3. This week's planning `15min`
- **Reference:** 
  - [Last week meeting minute 2020-01-14](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/_meeting-notes/2020-01-14.md)
  - [HOW_WE_WORK.md#weekly-sync](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/docs/HOW_WE_WORK.md#weekly-sync)
  - [KanBan Board](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/test-ground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board)
  - [Testing Infra Design](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/docs/SPEC.md)
  - [Testing Inventory](https://github.com/ipfs/testground/blob/master/docs/test-inventory.md)
  - [Testing Improvement Tracker](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xyqyGUF-oe3x9ln88YonVeOMWWdknik74lVgL_3dBY8/edit#gid=0)

:::

## :mega: Update (Done, Shipped, Made Progress)
> To be reviewed Async

- ==@raulk==
  - Got done
    - Shipped testground v0.1.
    - Announced testground v0.1 to shipped@ and Twitter.
    - Testground v0.2 lightweight planning.
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@daviddias==
  - Got done
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
  - Blocked
- ==@stebalien==
  - Got done
    - ...
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@nonsense==
  - Got done
      - v0.1 shipped (thanks to @raul and team!!!)
      - Max testplan instances allowed on cluster
      - Configurable resources per testplan
      - Cancelation of testplan run on k8s, on client cancel
      - AWS ECR image pushing bugfix
      - Other minor bugfixes
      - Sync with Adin on various issues and general UX/DX
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
      - Weave PR - currently work-in-progress
      - Coordination between k8s and sidecar
  - Blocked
      - ...
- ==@hacdias==
  - Got done
    - ...
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ... 
- ==@dirkmc==
  - Got done
    - ...
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@aschmahmann==
  - Got done
    - Improved stats collection, rewrote to use new loggers
    - [FindPeer discussion and resolution ](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/issues/784)
    - Move autonat detection into DHT
    - Trying out simultaneous connect fix by not stopping existing dials unless we learn about an outbound connection
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - Run tests on large k8s clusters to see how query improvement branch is performing
        - Ran on smaller clusters, but needed to investigate more how to make the tests run quickly on larger clusters
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@yusefnapora==
  - Got done
    - ...
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - ...
  - Blocked
    - ...
- ==@jacobheun==
  - Got done
    - Work planning and issue management
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - N/A
  - Blocked
    - N/A
- ==@fabiomartins91==
  - Onboarding process
  - PR's on updating TestGround team documentation
  - Reading articles and watching videos about IPFS and TestGround 
  - Didn't get done (and had commited to last week)
    - N/A
  - Blocked
    - N/A


## :question: Questions (Blockers, Technical Design needs)
> We only have 30 mins for this section, use your time wisely

- (@jacobheun) To @nonsense: what's the current status of testing the DHT with testground?
    - No blocking bugs so far.
    - It's hard to get visibility into what test plans are doing.
    - Need to work on tooling, so that developers can understand how different stages of test plans are taking, etc.
    - There's a difference between running test plans locally with 0 latency between processes, and between k8s when there are latencies between VMs.
    - Need more visibility and understanding.
- (@adin) Infura: we don't have any cap from the addresses that can be returned from the DHT, so what constrains is is 1mb (max size DHT message).
    - Have we gotten to the root cause of why we have so many addresses?
        - No. We know they're not relay addresses
        - There are a lot of old nodes in the network. There is an old bug where we would never forget addresses.


## Presentations

- (@raulk) testground v0.2 milestone planning: task assignment for testground v0.2.

- Testplans to emit their ip routes after network is initialised:

    Description:
    Rejig this issue into more general visibility into how Testground os building, planning, scheduling, etc. 
    a run, so that users know where testgrounfs responsibility ends and the test plan’s begins.
    
  -(@nonsense) 
    When we trigger the sidecar , side car doesn’t change the networking on idi test plans and they never get to the stage of network initialized.
    I think that nice solution basically telling all the logs of Testground daemon and measure how long it takes to that stage to been pitched

  -(@raulk)
    How the Testground is doing, intermixing when things break. Diff to understand if it is the Testground slow or if is the test plan that is wrong -> better insight If we can make evident when this  happens. 

  -(@aschmahmann)
    Where the responsibility lies and determine the speed. 
    Understanding like what are the properties of k8s network vs local network to make your Testground differently.
    Side car can figure it out the properties.
  
  -(@raulk)
    In the healthcheck if we can schedule workloads on to the environment to exercise the network to print out stats in order to know where is the backbone of the situation of the network-> let you know if the things are healthy in appearance or not

  -(@cory)
    How different is that from just the placebo test? You can have those like metrics and verify the environment.

  -(@aschmahmann)
    Those tests run in 2 nodes and note on 2000 nodes.
  
  -(@cory)
    You could do the test for the 100 nodes to exercise the size of the cluster as well. 
    
  -(@aschmahmann)
    Understanding the resource usage, if we are maxing out the machine, we should have the sdk printout metrics.
    
  -(@cory)
   Easier alternative to sdk: Ship with Prometheus that report on the k8s nodes that would tell you your cpu usage.

## :dart: Next

- ...

### Top 3 things to get done this week

- ...

### Assignments

See [https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/testground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board?milestones=Testground%20v0.2%232020-02-14&repos=197244214](https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/testground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board?milestones=Testground%20v0.2%232020-02-14&repos=197244214).

- ==@raulk==
  - ...
- ==@daviddias==
  - ...
- ==@nonsense==
  - ...
- ==@hacdias==
  - ...
- ==@stebalien==
  - ...
- ==@aschmahmann==
  - ...
- ==@yusefnapora==
  - ...
- ==@jacobheun==
  - Coordination of Testground/Content Routing sessions at team week
  - Planning for the next Content Routing sub milestone, target date March 6th
- ==@fabiomartins91==
  - ...
- ==@dirkmc==
  - ...

:::info
When the meeting is over, push notes to https://github.com/ipfs/testground/tree/master/_meeting-notes and verify that ZenHub is up to date https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/test-ground-5db6a5bf7ca61c00014e2961/board
:::

